---
layout: page
title: "[BD20] 2 Preliminaries"
author1: "Mihir Bellare"
author2: "Wei Dai"
venue: "INDOCRYPT 2020"
date: 2026-04-09
last_updated: 2026-04-09
label: "paper"
tags: [square-root-barrier, paper]
---

It is chapter 2 of the paper [The Multi-Base Discrete Logarithm Problem: Tight Reductions and Non-Rewinding Proofs for Schnorr Identification and Signatures]({{ "/articles/paper/BD20/" | relative_url }}). Other chapters include:

- [1 Introduction]({{ "/articles/paper/BD20-1/" | relative_url }})
- [3 The Multi-Base Discrete Logarithm Problem]({{ "/articles/paper/BD20-3/" | relative_url }})
- [4 Schnorr Identification and Signatures from MBDL]({{ "/articles/paper/BD20-4/" | relative_url }})
- [5 MBDL hardness in the Generic Group Model]({{ "/articles/paper/BD20-5/" | relative_url }})

---

## Notation

- If $n$ is a positive integer, then
  - $\mathbb{Z}_n$ denotes the set $\set{0, \ldots, n-1}$,
  - $[n]$ or $[1..n]$ denote the set $\set{1, \ldots, n}$.

- Denote the number of coordinates of a vector $x$ by $\lvert x\rvert$. If $x$ is a vector, then
  - $\lvert x\rvert$ denotes its length, the number of coordinates of $x$,
  - $x[i]$ denotes the $i$-th coordinate of $x$,
  - $[x] = \{x[i]: 1 \le i \le \lvert x\rvert\}$ denotes the set of all coordinates.

- A string is identified with a vector over $\set{0, 1}$. If $x$ is a string, then
  - $x[i]$ denotes its $i$-th bit,
  - $\lvert x\rvert$ denotes its length.

- Denote the empty vector or empty string by $\varepsilon$.

- The size of a set $S$ is denoted by $\lvert S\rvert$.
- For sets $D,R$, denote the set of all functions $f:D\to R$ by $\mathrm{FNS}(D,R)$.

### Sampling and algorithm notation

- Let $S$ be a finite set.

- Let $x \xleftarrow{\$} S$ denote sampling an element uniformly at random from $S$ and assigning it to $x$.

- Let $y \leftarrow A^{O_1,\ldots}(x_1,\ldots; r)$ denote executing algorithm $A$ with input $x_1,\ldots$, random coins $r$, and oracle access to $O_1,\ldots$, and assigning the output to $y$.

- Let $y \xleftarrow{\$} A^{O_1,\ldots}(x_1,\ldots)$ denote the resulting of picking $r$ at random and letting $y \leftarrow A^{O_1,\ldots}(x_1,\ldots; r)$.

- Let $[A^{O_1,\ldots}(x_1,\ldots)]$ denote the set of all possible outputs of $A$ when invoked with inputs $x_1,\ldots$ and oracle access to $O_1,\ldots$.

<div class="remark">
<b>Note</b>
Algorithms are randomized unless otherwise indicated. Running time is worst case.
</div>

## Games

我們使用文獻 <a class="cite" href="#bib-br06">BR06</a> 的 code-based game playing framework（範例見 Fig. 3）。

- 一個 game 具有若干 procedures，也稱為 oracles。其中包括 `Init` 與 `Fin`。

- 在以 game $\mathrm{Gm}$ 執行 adversary $\mathcal{A}$ 時
  1. 首先執行 procedure `Init`，其回傳值作為 $\mathcal{A}$ 的輸入。
  2. 之後，$\mathcal{A}$ 可以呼叫除了 `Init`、`Fin` 之外的所有 game procedures。
  3. 當 adversary 終止時，其輸出被視為 `Fin` 的輸入，而 `Fin` 的回傳值即為 game 的輸出。

- **Event**: $\Pr[\mathrm{Gm}(\mathcal{A})]$ 表示 game $\mathrm{Gm}$ 與 adversary $\mathcal{A}$ 一起執行後輸出為 `true` 的事件。

- **Initialization**: 在撰寫 game 或 adversary 的 pseudocode 時，預設 boolean 變數初始化為 `false`，整數變數初始化為 $0$，而 set-valued 變數初始化為空集合 $\emptyset$。

- **Time**: 當 adversary $\mathcal{A}$ 與 game $\mathrm{Gm}$ 一起執行時，adversary 的執行時間記為 $T_{\mathcal{A}}$，並假設 game procedures 的回應時間皆為單位時間。

- **Oracle**: $Q_{\mathcal{A}}^O$ 表示在該次執行中，$\mathcal{A}$ 對 oracle $O$ 所做的查詢次數。這些計數皆以 worst case 計。

## Groups

- Let $\mathrm{G}$ be a group of order $p$.
- Use multiplicative notation for the group operation.
- Let $1_{\mathrm{G}}$ denote the identity element of $\mathrm{G}$.
- Let $\mathrm{G}^* = \mathrm{G} \setminus \{1_{\mathrm{G}}\}$ denote the set of non-identity elements, which is the set of generators of $\mathrm{G}$ if $\mathrm{G}$ is of prime order.

- If $g \in \mathrm{G}^*$ is a generator and $X \in \mathrm{G}$, then
  the discrete logarithm of $X$ with respect to the base $g$ is denoted by $\mathrm{DL}_{\mathrm{G},g}(X)$, and it belongs to the set $\mathbb{Z}_{\lvert G\rvert}$.

## References

<ul class="bib">
  <li id="bib-br06">
    <span class="bib-key">BR06</span>
    <span class="bib-body">M. Bellare and P. Rogaway. <i>The security of triple encryption and a framework for code-based gameplaying proofs.</i> In S. Vaudenay, editor, EUROCRYPT 2006, volume 4004 of LNCS, pages 409–426. Springer, Heidelberg, May / June 2006.</span>
  </li>
</ul>
